Jeffrey Walley

c2-Strings-Exercise
-------------------

1. Create a string variable by entering the value from the keyboard.
	

	a. What command did you use?
		$a = Read-Host “Please enter a number”

	b. What is the only property that this variable has?
		Length; find it by: $a | select-object  :get the properties of the 											object 

2. Look up the PowerShell String variable online.  What do the following methods do?	
				On Microsoft.NET API Browser Docs == String Class
	a. StartsWith
	     Determines whether the beginning of the string instance matches the        beginning of the specified string, or whichever arguments that are used
	
	b. EndsWith
		  Determines whether the end of the string method matches the specified  string

	c. Equals
           Determines if the instance and a specified object, which Must be a String, have the same value		

	d. IndexOf
		  Reports the zero-based index of the first occurance o fthe specified string in the instance [will return 0 or -1] <T or F>

	e. Trim
		   Removes all leading and trailing white-space charaters from the current string
		   

3. What is the command to compare two strings and determine if they are equal?			 Equals()  – $x.Equals($y)  – will return True or False

4. Look up PowerShell String Arrays online.  What is the command to create a string array variable? 
		  $a = “old”,“new”,”rough”  - Separate them with commas  

5. What is the command to convert your string array variable into a single string with commas between each value?
		  $b = $a -join “,”    - use the Join option


6. Look up PowerShell String Concatenation online.  What is the syntax to perform this operation?
			$c = “string” + “ “ + “concatenation”




7. Look up PowerShell Split online.

	a. What characters can be used as string delimiters when performing a split?
		The default is whitespace; you can specify characters, strings, patterns, or script blocks as the delimiter

	b. What happens to the delimiter when a split is performed?
		   When the strings are split the delimiter is omitted from the substrings

8. Look up PowerShell Join online.

	a. What is the key difference between a join and string concatenation?
Join operator concatenates a set of strings into a single string, whereas Concatenate	functunality simply puts 2 or more strings together	  

	b. What can be used as a delimiter when performing a join?
